our world is built on an idea it's an
idea so powerful that we fight and die
for it we draw our Maps around it it
shapes our politics and forms the basis
of our very identity who we think we are
it's an idea so pervasive that you've
probably never even stopped to notice
how weird it is because here's the thing
this idea is completely made up and even
though it might feel like it's been
around forever it's actually newer than
you think
that idea is called the
nation it says that a country is more
than just the land drawn into a set of
borders it's actually a giant community
that is United by Heritage and identity
it says that the people the land the
state they're all one thing that thing
is called a nation you're not just a
person who happens to live in a place
called America you're American or
Brazilian or Japanese or Mexican or
Egyptian Nigerian Dutch
micronesian but let's stop a moment to
learn the story of where this idea came
from and how it took over everything
because once you do so much about our
world suddenly makes
[Music]
sense okay cool yeah are we rolling we
sure great to see you great to see you
it feels wrong to call it made up I know
like it's sort of contradicts everything
you've ever been told about the world
that's Max fiser my old colleague who
taught me a lot about journalism Max was
a New York Times columnist he wrote this
book and now he hosts a couple of
podcasts and he recently planted this
idea in my mind of just how fake
countries really are so I wanted to
bring him on to help me understand it
and then explain it to you it it really
does feel like countries are like
natural like they're a fundamental law
of humans and Human Society well take
France as an example if I tell you
France is made up that feels wrong I
mean it does feel wrong because I look
at a bunch of old maps and like even way
back in time there is a shape on the map
called France so the kingdom of France
whatever and it's changed but like
France was there for a really long time
but okay think about it is that true
France like most countries is built
around a story and that story says that
there's always been a French people who
share a culture an ethnicity and an
eternal connection to the land the
borders in the government might have
changed over the years but this land has
always been some version of
France wrong it's not true okay but show
me why not okay we think that borders
like France is formed because they
contained people with the same ethnicity
who spoke the same language right but
when you overlay a map of the actual
genetic makeup in Europe it looks like
this now look at France and you'll see
that any given part of the country has
closer genetic links with foreigners
across the border than they do with
their own countrymen yeah but like you
talk to Europeans who see their country
as like the home of their unique ethnic
group and I think there's even studies
on this that show that like Germany is
for Germans and Italy is for Italians
like these borders were drawn around
groups of people because of their common
ethnicity so people from certain areas
might share certain traits like red hair
for example but look at a map that shows
the distribution of red hair and you see
stuff like this never lines up with
national borders okay so countries
aren't correlated with ethnicity but
what about like language so today sure
people within these borders
predominantly speak one language but
this only happened really really
recently here's a map of languages in
France as of the early 1800s
only the people in this one area spoke
something close to modern-day French
most people in France spoke something
else and had for hundreds of years wow
that's surprising to me that there were
a bunch of different languages within
today's France so people living in this
land were culturally and genetically
fractured that's what these Maps show
and they spoke a bunch of different
languages but they still belonged to one
big political entity like there was a
Fran here again I've got this tool and I
like scroll all the way back to like the
1200s and I see a thing called the
kingdom of France ruled by a king who
was apparently ruling people who lived
on all of this land so wouldn't these
people be considered French like isn't
this proof that countries have existed
for hundreds if not thousands of years
actually no not in the way that we mean
countries today for someone living down
here hundreds of kilometers from the
king's palace in Paris there was no
concept of being French they'd probably
identify with the people in their
Village or their town but that is about
it like what do you care if another town
hundreds of miles away happens to be
ruled by the same King who by the way is
just some guy who levies taxes on you
occasionally okay so French people at
this time were more like subjects who
happen to be ruled by the same person
living in a far away Capital as opposed
to today where countries are more like
one giant Club where we all feel unified
and we're willing to die for a national
story right and borders used to
fluctuate all the time if you lived up
here and your town switched from the
French King to the English king did your
identity suddenly flip from French to
English too no you're still just a
farmer from a village trying to scrape
by okay so that's France there was
divided languages and eth ethnicities
arbitrary borders and not really a sense
of like unified France but what about
elsewhere is this happening everywhere
that's everywhere okay but what about
like China China was a place where you
had a powerful Imperial government they
were proud of their identity they saw
themselves as the world's Central
civilization like when I look at Chinese
history there seems to be this cultural
identity that lasted and lasted and
still seems to into today so that
version of ancient Chinese identity that
you're referring to that was felt
strongly among the political Elite in
the capital but basically nowhere else
most people under their rule did not
speak Chinese and did not think of
themselves as Chinese the borders were
always shifting and even sometimes split
between rival Empires which meant there
was no fixed sense of what constituted
the Chinese people or Chinese land so
actually very similar to the French
story so let's get back to that if I
look at my little time lapse of maps
eventually the shape of France does turn
into France the France that we know
today how does that happen a big step in
that direction and this supplies for
China too is by becoming an Empire ah
okay Empires yes I know Empires that's
something that I've actually like looked
quite a bit into and I want to kind of
approach the imperial history of France
and Europe and the world but through
this lens of like it was very fractured
and sort of see where it goes from
[Music]
there wait before we go on I'm flying to
Saudi Arabia tonight like literally in a
few hours and one of the big issues that
I face when I travel is staying
connected on my phone it's pretty
expensive to just let my phone connect
to the local network and my like carrier
back here in the United States charges
me a ton of money every day so I've
started using eims which is the reason
I'm telling you about this is cuz it's
the sponsor of today's video aolo I just
a moment ago right before filming this
went onto AO and found Saudi Arabia and
went through a literal 90c sign up and
checkout process where I was able to
purchase a large data pack and get this
QR code that the moment I land in Saudi
Arabia I scan this and set it up on my
phone and boom I will have access to
high-speed data a lot of it and I got it
for a really affordable price if you
travel you should definitely download
this app to be ready next time you land
in a new place having high-speed
internet on your phone is so important
when you're traveling at least for me
and AO is making it so easy to get
really good affordable high-speed data
packs there's no SIM cards that you're
installing nothing physical It's All
Digital and all very smooth and easy and
there are over 200 countries and regions
represented where you can get an eim so
next time you're going on the road check
this out I did this on my computer but
I'm currently downloading the app okay
I've got the app I've signed up no
matter where I am in the world I will
easily be able to jump in and sign up
for an eim when you buy your first eim
you use the code Johnny 3 and you will
get $3 off your first eim purchase this
is a cool product I'm very excited about
it if it's interesting to you you can do
two things go to try. ao.com Johny
Harris and sign up and download the app
this will allow you to quickly buy an
eim next time you land in some other
country or before you go eims are game
changers when you're traveling I'm very
happy Aro exists and I'm very grateful
that they sponsored today's video with
that let's dive back into this history
okay so Max has sufficiently convinced
me that countries aren't real that
they're made up in our minds and that
France was not a real country until
recently so I've been looking into what
happens next trying to answer this
question of when does France start to
look like the France of today the first
thing I thought of here was the French
Revolution the late 1700s what looks
more like National Spirit than a bunch
of people rising up together to
overthrow their King let them eat cake
but it turns out that we're not even
close people at this time still
basically didn't speak French they
didn't share some French identity in
fact the French Revolution can kind of
be seen as the start of the long road of
building a French identity the process
of a bunch of fractured communities
unifying under one story this revolution
embodied a fairly new idea that the
government actually derives its
legitimacy not from God or some other
natural right but from the people
themselves that all of these people were
not Royal subjects but rather citizens
that this country was theirs which
turned all of this land at least in
their minds into a new kind of
thing the soil that they came from and
owned together but listen this is all
still really abstract in people's minds
it's like a very new idea and it would
remain so until this guy came
around Napoleon bonapart Advanced the
process of turning France into France
perhaps more than any other French
person remember how France looked like
this well Napoleon started to make it
look a lot more like this he rallied the
people around this new idea of
patriotism complete with symbols and
songs and art that emphasized French
greatness the idea that we all belong to
one giant tribe this idea was further
cemented when Napoleon recruited men
from all around this country to come
join his army to fight for France giving
them the sense that they were all joined
in a glorious National fight and in the
process spreading that nationalistic
idea all throughout Europe Napoleon did
something else that was very important
and you can see it in this painting
instead of pledging loyalty to the pope
as European Kings had always done here
he is crowning himself the Catholic
church at this time had been declining
in power and Napoleon was sidelining it
in favor of himself his Imperial Cult of
Personality this was a pretty smooth
power play but it also helped shift
people's sense of loyalty away from
religion and towards their Nation by the
end of his Reign Napoleon's France was
pretty unrecognizable from those
scattered Loosely connected kingdoms
that had dominated this land for many
many years it was looking a lot more
like one thing like a country okay but
there was still a lot more to do before
France became as unified as we think of
it today their Revolution eventually
faltered these Napoleonic Wars didn't
really work out but then something
bigger happened
industrialization what Napoleon and
others previously had done had helped
unify France kind of mentally
psychologically but what
industrialization does is it unites it
physically with iron and concrete here
come all these factories and factories
need trains to bring in raw materials
and to send out finished products so you
see all these new train networks that
put France's towns within just a few
hours of each other interlinking
communities that had always been
separated by distance in turn this
brought more people into the cities
melting pots of people from all over the
country now swirling around together all
of their little regional identities were
mixing into a new French identity
something they all shared factory work
more and more required people to read so
the government built a national school
system they taught the French language
along with French national pride and
values soon all the Breton and the oxy1
would become Frenchmen the school
teachers were kind of like Heroes they
were nicknamed the foot soldiers on the
front lines of this effort to
indoctrinate the Next Generation in this
new national identity Rising literacy
meant mass media newspapers now people
could read about the events of the day
making them feel a part of a community
they could keep up to date on the
nation's politics making the capital
feel Within Reach to everyone now
remember how Napoleon had built all of
those Outpost throughout the country
well now thanks to all of these advances
in travel and communication the central
government could actually rule over
these places over every corner of the
country through a uniform Universal
government system rather than through
local Lords and magistrates and like in
the schools they mandated that all of
this was done in the French language and
conveying the French national story
pride in the nation so yeah when Max
says that the nation is a new thing he's
really right it wasn't until like 1870
or 1880 that you start to see a modern
French identity that kind of looks like
the one we know today and some
historians like the guy who wrote This
Book argue that it didn't really fully
happen until the 1910s like 100 years
ago some beautiful maps in this book by
the way so countries are a new thing but
here's the deal our leaders don't want
us to know that in France the ruling
Elite at the time didn't want to admit
that France was kind of a new thing that
would sound way too weak and delicate so
they kind of constructed a national
mythology that implied that France has
kind of been around
forever they wanted people to believe
that the idea of France was eternal it
was fixed and therefore so were these
borders this shape that was a much more
compelling story that created a sense of
loyalty and patriotism among the French
people and it totally worked this idea
spread not just in France but throughout
this whole continent in Italy it began
when an ambitious Rabel Rouser set his
followers marching on Rome and
eventually our entire world would be
built off of this
idea this was happening all over Europe
so France's nation building really seems
like it was topped down was it like that
everywhere it's a lot of both top down
and bottom up so Napoleon had spread
these ideas as he' conquered across
Europe and as that way of thinking sunk
in more and more people wanted a nation
people all over Europe staged this wave
of revolutions that mostly failed but
got people animated to fight for what
they saw as unrealized National
homelands and some fought Wars of
Independence or unification that did
eventually create Nations okay like
Italy eventually did that right it was
super fractured seemingly and then it
all comes together yes though even when
Italy finally unified in 1861 wait
1861 that's so recent oh it gets even
Wilder only 2 and a half% of people in
the new Italy even spoke Italian and
almost none of them even thought of
themselves as Italian one of the
unification leaders has this famous
quote that I love he said we have made
Italy and now we have to make Italians
wow so how do you do that how do you
make Italians it was mostly the same as
in France schools national
Administration industrialization and a
lot a lot of national myth making so
what I saw was that France doesn't
finish that process until like a hundred
years ago like 1910 was it the same for
Italy Italy started even later and it
was not as industrialized as France had
been so it went much slower even by 1950
only 20% spoke Italian and people mostly
identified with their Regional language
or with their city and not with Italy
that only really changed with the first
national TV channels in the 1960s there
was even this famous TV show it's never
too late that taught people
Italian all of which is to say that this
process of internal nation building of
becoming a country can take like a
century and it's all really recent
what's crazy about this is once you
start to really get your head around the
national myth you kind of see it
everywhere and you start to see how much
it has influenced our modern history
identities that have led to war and
conflict all over the world so let's go
back to Europe really quick and look at
a few more like Germany Germany unified
in like the 1860s and' 70s its process
was a lot like Italy and it actually
inspired other countries to rise up with
this ethnic nationalism all across
Europe carving old Empires into new
countries Serbia Romania Norway Bulgaria
Albania a lot of them followed a similar
template but the invention of all of
these new countries was kind of like a
powder cake that eventually exploded
into the first world war the winners got
together and redrew the entire map
around the national idea One Nation for
one people the idea is that this would
kind of create peace because if one
people were just in these boundaries
then there would be no need to fight
Wars right wrong because borders were
never going to be perfectly drawn around
a people like this is Germany's border
but this is where all the German
speakers are you can see they don't line
up so instead all of this redrawing of
borders led to ultra nationalists rising
up across Europe on promises to conquer
the land that they considered rightfully
theirs which led to yet another world
war and this gets to the dark side of
the idea of a Nation it very naturally
breeds the persecution of
minorities because if a nation is
supposedly defined by its shared ethnic
identity then anyone who is not in that
majority identity is an outsider they're
a threat to the character of the nation
now of course the national identity the
national character the ethnic identity
all of this was made up but boy did
people start to believe that it was real
fascist would go on to to murder
millions in the name of
nationalism an idea that was basically
invented 70 years earlier so we've been
talking about Europe but things like
Railways and mass media spread around
the world and so did the idea of a
Nation just like in Europe communities
Tied by language or history started to
think of themselves as nationalities
ready to fight for nations of their own
often times this happened in places
where people were forced together by
arbitrary Imperial borders often drawn
by Europeans but even that was a
unifying idea that led people to rise up
to kick their colonizers out and to
fight for their own National idea and
soon the entire world would be defined
by this idea of the nation firm borders
centralized governments flags and pride
in your country but while this looks
neat on a map it's not perfect because
the idea of a nation is inherently
imperfect we have this idea that every
person is entitled to a nation of their
own but the way those people identify es
and flows and changes and often doesn't
fit perfectly into one box we start wars
over territory that our national myth
says belongs to us we fight over who
belongs in our national community and
who doesn't and who gets to decide so
much of the conflict and violence in our
world today comes from our belief in the
nation and my my question in all of this
is is there a better way a more peaceful
way to organize ourselves and yet it
feels like we're stuck in this way these
identities that seem so firm and they
seem like they're getting like firmer
and more intense every year like this is
the only way that we can organize our
world by countries and nationalities the
good news is that it's not necessarily
as fixed as you might think National
identities can change like let's go back
to France where it's becoming more
accepted that you can be French
regardless of your race or religion or
your place of birth but at the same time
there's also a rising backlash to that
that clings to the idea of France as
just for the French you know like it or
not people need some sort of collective
identity to hold on to and national
identity is just the one we have right
now it seems like one answer is that we
still have these identities that are
fixed around land and borders but that
they can expand and become bigger and
take on different meaning like the idea
of European that that feels like an
identity that is very real it's still
Collective and it's still defined but it
doesn't have the danger of exclusion
ethnicity competition and War at least
not within those big borders how would
you describe a Cosmopolitan identity
think of people who live in a big Global
City like New York or Hong Kong or
London or Singapore and this identity
that you are a person of the world that
you're a globe traveler that you're
taking in many different cultures that's
kind of Cosmopolitan identity ironic we
don't think of that as an identity but
it absolutely is and it's one that's
taking the place of national identity
what else do you think exists out there
that could replace this and does the
nation ever go away or does it just get
watered down and become less Salient
over time there are lots of places that
you can get your sense of identity and
your sense of community from I mean I
think there are people who find that in
religion you can find that in your
profession you can find that in just
your local community which is the way
that a lot of people used to do it and I
think the fact that we are all becoming
more aware and more conscious of the
fact that we need to get community from
someplace is making us a little more
thoughtful about it and at times more
constructive about it although you still
see this push poll which is probably
going to go on forever of do we want a
hardened national identity that's about
us versus them and who's in and who's
out or do we want to create some sort of
a way of thinking about our role in our
community and our identity that is more
inclusive I also wonder often if humans
need a a them an enemy like I I or at
least in a nationalistic context there
seems to have to be a them in order for
there to be an us but I I do Wonder
within our psychology if these
identities that don't have an enemy are
less potent or have less stain power
than the kind of embattled sense of like
I'm an American and terrorists are out
to get me you know like having a an
enemy is such a potent way to coales
people around fear I think that's
totally true I think there is so much
evidence that psychologically just our
brains are so much more drawn to
identities that are defined around
fighting and resisting and fearing some
group some them but I think that just
goes to show that it is something that
we have to be conscious about and really
thoughtful about in order to Rise Above
So this has been a pretty fascinating
history for me and after charting
through it I'm left with this feeling
that countries and nations are ideas
that we as a world are still learning to
live with peacefully But ultimately
countries are just that they are an idea
they're flexible they're malleable as
malleable as our minds we can change how
we draw these lines and who gets left in
and who gets left out it's something
that I believe we are slowly figuring
out with a lot of bumps in the road and
even though it feels hardwired and fixed
like this is the way it has to be it
only feels that way until someone comes
around with a better more enlightened
way to organize the 8 billion people on
this
planet wait before you go you can buy
this shirt shirt if you're into this
shirt which I think is pretty sick you
can buy it it was designed by our very
own Nick the studio manager who wears a
shirt like this into the studio and it
is perfect for today's video because
it's borders and countries you can
scrutinize the borders and pester me
about them later if you'd like borders
are made up and arbitrary but they're
very important to a lot of people
because they actually affect people's
lives big theme on the channel but yeah
check it out the link is somewhere and
uh thanks for watching today's video and
I'll see you in the next one
[Music]
sick we're done done